So one of the core tenants of
Deno is secure by default.
And we've already discussed in
the section of the same name
that this means that by default,
Deno can't do very much.
It can't read your file system.
It can't make HTTP calls,
it's completely sandboxed by default.
Okay, so and we've already done this,
but let's do this again.
Let's try and
just read from the terminal here.
So let's do this.
I'm just going to paste this in.
And let's just we're just going to try
to read everything and as we know,
let's collapse this clear this out.
So Deno run, and
as we know this is gonna fail and
we have to pass an allow
read flag like this.
And then we can actually read it and these
are all the files in my current directory.
And so the flags that we passed,
by default
give Deno more access
than it actually needs.
And I think somebody ask
this question earlier,
get multiple folders on your machine.
But one of the things that
you can do here is like
you can pass a descriptor to, the flag.
So I could say, okay, you can read
everything in the current directory so
I'm gonna run this again, and it's gonna
tell me that permission was denied.
Because I'm actually trying to read
the parent directory not the current
directory.
So if I specify the current directory,
like this,
then the program will actually run but
I was to try to read like I don't know
the root directory, like this,
that does run, nice.
So, why?
Because the directory that the code
is trying to read what we need to
do is change this, so
if the code tries to read this.
That should work, and we pass in allow
read, is just the current directory,
this should fail and it does, right?
So you can pass in specificity
to your permissions, so
that you're not giving it too much access,
because once you say allow read,
you're just giving it access
to your entire system.
So, it's good to specify
the level of access there on
what folders Deno can and can't access.
And this is more akin to the way
that your phone asks you anyway for
access to do things.
If you're writing code for Deno,
especially if you become a package
author then we might want to get
into territory where Deno really
does behave like your phone.
And it really does ask you about your
contacts and your photos, and whether or
not it can have permission,
and there's an API to do that.
So let's take a look here.
Here.
Let's get rid of our terminal
to make this a little bit nicer.
Let's get rid of that type script
error which I'd I don't like,
there's a better way to
deal with isolated modules.
I don't know what it is.
Someone will email me and
tell me, I'm sure.
So what we wanna do here is,
we wanna request permission to
do this when the program runs.
And so instead of having the user
pass us their permission,
we want to ask for it and
see if they'll give it to us.
So how do we do that?
Well, we need to create
a permission descriptor to do that.
And then it's just an object and
then we just need to pass the name, and
we wanna read.
Yeah, we wanna read the file system.
Done.
And
then, because of the weirdness of
TypeScript that gets injected,
we actually have to cast it as a constant,
although I'm not terribly sure why.
And then what we wanna do is
let's just do status and then.
Deno.permissions, and
you'll notice that's not there,
because it is a experimental,
it's an unstable API, and
then request the permission, and
we're gonna pass in the descriptor.
Okay, now, what this is gonna
return us is an object, so
status is gonna have an object on it.
And it's going to look like this state and
the state is either gonna be granted or
it's going to be denied.
Okay, by the time we actually get this, or
if we haven't even asked it'll
be completely undefined.
So what we can do here is just
wrap this in an if statement,
see if status dot state equals triple
equals, because it's JavaScript.
If it is equal to granted,
then we'll do all of this stuff here.
But if it isn't,
then we can provide the user
with a more friendly error, console.log.
This program needs permission
to read the current
directory, current directory only.
Something like that, I don't know.
Let's turn on wrap.
Wrap toggle word wrap, okay.
And then let's do this.
Alright now, let's run this.
Let's run this and find out what happens.
So when you deno run app.ts,
it' gonna check and
it's gonna say permission's doesn't exist,
because we need the unstable flag,
which we should be used to by now.
Wanna stay unstable.
And now Deno is going to ask us, sorry.
When we do this request,
this actually returns a promise.
So we need to await it.
We don't know that,
because we can't see it on the object,
because it is an unstable
API that we're working with.
So let's try that again.
And now you can see it wants to know.
Okay, Deno requests read access.
Do we want to grant it or not?
Now notice, though, that it doesn't
tell us read access to what?
What do you want to read?
So let's just say yeah, well granted
access, and then it'll give us that if we
ask it again and we say deny,
then we get the other right.
So it's just a nicer Interface for
actually getting permissions if you
are an author of a Deno module and
you want people to have that option.
There is another thing that we can do
we're here where we can actually test to
see whether, or not permission has already
been granted, but before we do that,
let's talk about specificity.
So when we passed in read we didn't
pass in anything else and so
when we give it read access
we're basically giving
it read access to our whole
system which we don't want to do.
And so what we can do instead is say
we only want to access to the parent
directory.
You're here.
And so as part of the descriptor,
if we pass that back in and
then run it again, this time,
it didn't request, read access to.
Right?
And so
now we know it's only accessing this.
Yeah.
I'm okay with that.
I'll go ahead and grant that, that's good.
That's secure.
And so the same is true if we're doing
HTTP requests, where we can say not only
do we want to do a request, but
this is the URL we plan on accessing.
And so it's just a really good way to
inform the user about exactly what
your program is going to do.
And so they're not too concerned
that you're you're getting too
many permissions.